So we've trained our model on training and test channels of data.
Then deployed this to create a predictor that should be able to predict
the future or rather produce predictions of prediction length,
30 days, given a historical time series as input.
Now, we can't pass a time series object to our predictor directly.
We have to format the input in a specific way.
It's going to be a JSON format once again.
The predictor expects to see input data in
a JSON format with instances and configuration keys.
Here's an example of what this looks like.
The instances are just a list of JSON formatted time series
that should be forecast by the model,
and we know how to create these already with the function series to JSON obj we wrote.
You may also note that the target can be a list of values of varying length.
Then configuration holds a dictionary of
configuration information that defines the type of response we want from the predictor.
Then our predictor will output
some samples with an element of randomness and uncertainty,
and so we'll want quantile predictions back as output.
Quantiles basically look at the ranges that these samples fall into.
So we can get an upper and lower bound for
our prediction range as well as an average over all samples, for example.
This will become clearer when we can actually visualize this data.
But know that we'll have a configuration with some number of samples to generate,
an output type which is going to be quantiles,
and the list of exact quantiles that we want.
So this function is provided and it's written to take in a list of
input time series and produce
a JSON formatted input that we can then pass to our predictor.
Here's exactly how that JSON request is constructed.
First gain our JSON formatted input series and then specifying the configuration.
In the next cell, and getting all the input training and full test time series,
which I'll use only for evaluation.
Then I'm passing the list of
input training time series into our function to get a JSON formatted output.
This holds instances for all three of our input series,
then I'm passing this formatted input to the predictor,
calling predictor dot predict and passing in this input.
This print line is here in case you need to debug or want to see what this looks like.
Looking at the documentation,
I can see that if I pass in an input with this instances and configuration format,
I should get a response in this format where we have
a dictionary of predictions organized by quantiles.
So in our notebook,
I've written code to decode the predictor output as well,
just getting my quantile predictions for each time series that was passed in.
This should return a list of predictions.
So this has been a lot of formatting and unformatting.
But now if I decode my JSON prediction,
I'm going to be left with the list that looks like
this or at least this for the first time series.
It's a list of 30 predictions for
each quantile and the 30 comes from our prediction length.
I can finally use this data to display the results.
This display quantiles function takes in a list of quantile predictions
like we just generated and a list of target time series if there are some.
It will display the unknown last 30 values in a target time series.
It will also print the average prediction over all samples.
The target and prediction median should be comparable.
This also fills in an area with
lower and upper bounds for the majority of the produce samples.
Those samples that fall in between quantiles 0.1 and 0.9.
When I run this code,
I get these three plots.
I can see that the results are actually pretty good.
The predictions seem to generally follow the waves and trend of the target data.
They also seem like they might get a little less
certain inaccurate at the end of a prediction window.
Next, I have one last thing to show you,
which is predicting the 2010 data that we withheld.